[Music]
the moon
is the second brightest object in our
sky at the same time
among other astronomical bodies it's one
of the dimmest
and least reflective our natural
satellite only seems bright
because it's so close to earth for
comparison
our planet looks much brighter when you
look at it from space
it's because clouds ice and snow reflect
way more light than most types of rock
triton neptune's moon has all its
surface covered with several layers of
ice
if this satellite replaced our current
moon the night
sky would get seven times brighter
the closer the moon is to the horizon
the larger it looks
this phenomenon is called the moon
illusion
one of the theories explaining it claims
that the atmosphere plays the role of a
magnifying glass
which makes the moon look bigger in
reality
if the atmosphere had a say in it the
moon would actually look smaller
not bigger most experts believe
that the illusion is created by your own
mind
it can increase the moon's size more
than twice
when earth's satellite is high up in the
sky you don't have any visual cues about
how far away it is
but when it's near the horizon you can
see objects
surrounding it in detail it makes the
moon look larger
but it's just one of the many theories
explaining the phenomenon
by the way you can trick yourself out of
this illusion if you
bend down and look at the moon upside
down through your legs
two or three years ago an asteroid was
pulled into earth's orbit
and started to travel around the planet
even though it's no larger than an
average car
it's still a big deal out of more than
one million asteroids astronomers know
about
it's only the second one to orbit our
planet
called 2020 cd3 it's our temporary
mini moon it won't be with earth for
long though
the asteroid is following a random orbit
and is slowly drifting away
temporarily captured objects such as
cd3 are rare they need to have specific
direction and speed
to be caught by earth's gravitational
pull otherwise
they either crash into the planet or fly
in another direction
a transient lunar phenomenon is one of
the most
enigmatic things happening on the moon
it's a short-lived
light color or some other change on the
satellite's surface
most commonly it's random flashes of
light
astronomers have been observing this
phenomenon since the 1950s
they've noticed that the flashes occur
randomly sometimes
they can happen several times a week
after that
they disappear for several months some
of them don't last longer than a couple
of minutes
but there have been those that continued
for hours
the year was 1969 one day before apollo
11 landed on the moon
one of the mission participants noticed
that one part
of the natural satellite was more
illuminated than the surrounding
landscape
it looked as if that area had a kind of
fluorescence to it
unfortunately it's still unclear if this
phenomenon was connected with the
mysterious lunar flashes
there might be more metals for example
titanium or iron
in lunar craters than astronomers used
to think
the main problem with this finding it
contradicts the main
theory about how the moon was formed
that theory says
that earth's natural satellite was spun
off from our planet
after a collision with a massive space
object
but then why does earth's metal pore
crust
have much less iron oxide than the moons
it might mean the moon formed from the
material lying
much deeper inside our planet or
these metals could have appeared when
the molten lunar surface
was slowly cooling down the moon's
gravity
is about 17 of that on earth
if you weighed 200 pounds on our home
planet
on the moon your weight would decrease
to a mere 34 pounds
you would also be able to carry stuff
six times heavier
than what you can carry on earth it
would be easier to walk on the moon's
surface
but it would be more dangerous too your
feet
inside a heavy space suit would sink
into the lunar soil
up to six inches deep but let's imagine
you decided to skip the tedious process
of walking
by leaping through the air then you'd
likely lose control of your jumps in no
time
plus the moon's surface is littered with
deep craters
it would be a tough feat to avoid all of
them
not so long ago astronomers discovered a
massive blob
of some mysterious substance it was
hidden
under the surface of the moon's far side
its mass was the same as that of a pile
of metal
five times larger than the big island of
hawaii
the enigmatic something lies almost 200
miles beneath an enormous crater
that appeared in the lunar surface
billions of years ago
the blob likely has something to do with
a super collision
it might be the metal core of the object
that hit the moon back then
scientists can't wait to lay their hands
on the discovery
it could explain lots of things about
the south pole aitkin crater
the largest known in the solar system if
it was on earth
its oval-shaped basin would stretch from
washington dc
to texas there's no
air on earth's natural satellite but
then
how can it be rusting scientists have
discovered the presence
of hematite on the moon and it's a kind
of rust
a special nasa research instrument
examined the light
reflected off the moon's surface it
turned out
that the composition of the satellite's
poles was very different from the rest
of it
the moon's surface is dotted with
iron-rich rocks
but without oxygen and liquid water rust
can't appear solar winds add to the
mystery they bombard the moon with
hydrogen
and hydrogen makes it much more
difficult for hematite to form
but even though the moon doesn't have an
atmosphere it still has
some trace amounts of oxygen its source
is our planet's upper atmosphere earth
also protects the moon from almost 100
percent of solar winds
although not all the time and even
though our natural satellite is bone dry
there might be water ice in the shadowed
craters on its far
side the moon isn't a perfect sphere
it's shaped like an egg plus the
satellite's center of mass
is a bit more than a mile off its
geometric center
[Music]
the earth and the moon are gradually
drifting apart
as slowly as your fingernails grow this
is the flip side of our satellite's
gravitational force
the moon creates tides in the earth's
oceans
they pull back at the moon and make it
speed up
this in turn moves the satellite to a
higher orbit
in prehistoric times the moon was way
closer to our planet than it
is now luckily we aren't going to lose
the moon
the farther away it moves the weaker its
gravitational pull becomes
it means that soon our planet won't be
pushing the moon away with such a force
there's very little activity going on
inside the moon
plus there's almost no atmosphere around
that's why scientists can trace impact
craters littering the satellite surface
back billions of years while dating the
craters
astronomers discovered that the moon
along with our planet
went through a late heavy bombardment
about 4 billion years ago
this event is also known as the lunar
cataclysm
this interval lasted several hundred
millions of years
during it an unusually large number of
asteroids collided with earth
mercury mars and venus
there might be a labyrinth of lava tubes
on the moon
not long ago astronomers received the
results of an underground
lunar topography they discovered a
massive
cave under the satellite's surface about
30 miles long and 60 miles wide
the caves likely to be the result of
three billion year old volcanic activity
after streams of lava hardened they
created
a thick hard crust on the outside but
inside
lava kept flowing melting the rock and
forming tunnels and caves
countless pits in the moon's surface
discovered by nasa
might be the openings to lava tubes
the moon's orbit around the earth isn't
a circle
it's an oval that's why the distance
between our planet
and the satellite varies from over 225
000 miles to more than 250 000 miles
there's very little seismic activity
going on inside the moon
yet many moon quakes caused by our
planet's gravitational pull
sometimes happen several miles below the
surface
after that tiny cracks and fractures
appear
in the satellite surface and gases
escape through them